What is Alexa Skill? - Brief Overview
Keyword = Alexa Skill
Alexa is a voice service available on devices like Amazon Echo, Echo Dot or Echo Show.



I recently discoverd Alexa Skill so I thought why not write a blog post about it. Maybe next week I´m going to try and code a Alexa Skill and share it with you.

What is Alexa Skill?
Alexa is a voice service available on devices like Amazon Echo, Echo Dot or Echo Show.
Alexa provides users with skills and spoken instructions, such as the ability to play music, get answers to common questions, set an alarm or timer, and more.
The best thing about is you can programm such a skill on your own and its not that difficult.

What can you develop with Alexa?
With the Alexa Skills Kit, you can add features to Smart Home devices, deliver new content, enable voice control for services, and more.
Revolutionize the user experience with Alexa.

Smart Home-Skills
Alexa offers features or skills that help users build a more personalized environment.
With Alexa, users have the option of smart home devices, such as: As cameras, door locks, entertainment systems, lighting and thermostats to control.

Games and trivia skills
Controlling games with the language is the newest and most exciting development in gaming.
The pioneers of voice-driven games are exploring new ways to captivate players with interactive adventures, family games, quizzes and more.
Complete your wildest game ideas with voice control. Build a fan base - reach millions of Alexa devices through Alexa.
You can even get Developer Rewards for it. Develop your game and determine the future of gaming.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WA20rRVfe1Y

Flash Briefing-Skills
The Flash Briefing Skill API is an extension of the Alexa Skills Kit (ASK) that allows developers to put their feeds into the Alexa Flash Briefing, a service that provides users with pre-recorded audio clips and reads messages by voice.
Examples of flash briefing skills include news from well-known broadcasters and blogs, latest headlines, and the weather forecast.

Custom Skills
Erweitere deine Idee oder bereits bestehende Services um eine sprachliche Interaktion.
Entwickle ein benutzerdefiniertes Interaktionsmodell, mit dem deine Nutzer beispielsweise ein Taxi rufen, Pizza bestellen oder Informationen heraussuchen können – sprachgesteuert und ohne einen Finger zu rühren.

Skills for Children

Video Skills
The Video Skill API is a new addition to the Alexa Skills Kit (ASK), which can be used to teach Alexa new skills. Alexa includes a number of built-in video content search and playback features.
These skills include, for example, the ability to search for a TV show, play a movie, or switch the TV program. Alexa can now be taught how to control video content and services.
This means that you can develop voice-driven user guides that allow users to easily browse and use video content without having to go through a specific skill. For example, users simply say, "Alexa, play Manchester by the Sea" without having to specify a vendor or device.

Skills für Echo Show
All Alexa skills can be used automatically with Echo Show and Echo Spot. The skills show all skill cards that you currently have in your response items.
This is the current display of your Alexa skill cards in the Alexa app, very similar to Fire TVs and Fire tablets. If no skill card is available, a default template will display the icon and name of the skill.
